in this lesson we're going to talk about
the functionality and usage of azure
service health and this is all about
getting a personalized view of the
health of azure services azure regions
and resources in general
this is easier to understand by just
looking at it so if we jump over to the
portal
if we go all the way down to the bottom
to help and support
if we select that
we can go into this idea of service
health
now this is going to break down into a
number of different things firstly
we can select what do we care about
do i care about certain regions
do i care about certain services
certain subscriptions right now it
showed me there are no service issues
found
it tells me about upcoming planned
maintenance on my resources
it's telling me about health advisories
that may exist maybe things that are
going to happen things that i should do
security advisories
and what i can have is this idea of
health history so to actually show you
this if i go back three months
here i can actually see well there have
been some issues and what it's going to
do is for any of these issues notice
some of these are actions recommended
some of them were actual problems and if
it's actual problems once it's closed
well firstly we'll get updates as the
issue is happening this will get updated
typically hourly as to what's happening
so i know what's going on
and then a couple of days after it's
resolved you'll get a root cause
analysis so i can understand as the
customer what actually happened what
caused that
so
i i have an idea of exactly what was
happening in the environment
one of the other things i can do
is i can create a health alert
so i can actually get notified let's
reload that
if there's certain types of events that
i care about it could actually notify me
because maybe i want to be proactively
notified so here you've got one here hey
service health alert
on this certain region there was
something happen this thing i created
but i could absolutely add new service
health alerts based on civic services on
pacific regions based on different types
of events
hey plan maintenance health advisory
service issues and i can call those same
action groups we had in azure monitor
to actually get told about those
so service health is great to go and
look at maybe what's happening that's
impacting me
but i can also create those alerts
so it will proactively tell me when
these things are happening so i don't
just have to go and look and find them
myself